# Xcap : a pipeline for automated structure solution
High-throughput crystallographic approaches require integrated software solutions to minimize the need for manual effort. We are developing a system that allows fully automated crystallographic structure solution by integrating existing crystallographic software into an adaptive and partly autonomous workflow engine. The program should be able to perform homology modeling, molecular-replacement phasing,and refinement without further user intervention. Preset values for each software component allow efficient progress with high-quality data and known parameters. Our solution streamlines commonly used software tools, following well established methodologies, to mimic the process of manual data processing and structure solution to yield high-quality structural models without requiring additional manual manipulation. 
The purpose is to create an automated crystal structure determination platform which executes a number of macro-molecular crystallographic software programs to produce a software pipeline for automated and efficient crystal structure determination to enable making decisions for the scientists.

# Methodology
Xcap, a completely automated tool that integrates already existing software solutions such as Phaser, MolRep, Phenix etc for the individual steps of determining the homology model, phasing, molecular replacement and  refining of crystallo­graphic structure-solution processes into a pipeline.
Written in the GO programming language, Xcap is platform-independent. Being user-friendly presupposes being flexible and adaptive to individual needs; therefore, an approach in which multiple tools are combined and little user input is required was chosen. The software architecture allows swapping or appending modules, easily allowing adaptability while maintaining full automation during individual experiments.

# Architecture 
The GO programming language is chosen to implement the Xcap concepts because of its ease of reading syntax, strong meta programming and an abundance of libraries providing process-management and web-framework tools.

During a typical experiment, The modular architecture of Xcap  directly accepts the .sca files generated by HKL-2000/3000 and any .mtz file , allowing complete user control over the data processing. At this stage, the output.log file is parsed for statistical parameters as shown in Fig 1 below.

The molecular-replacement pipelines AutoMR from the PHENIX suite are used to solve the phase problem. 
The default settings generate an AutoMR session for molecular-replacement phasing,
Another script is written and executed to generate a single file which is refined by calling phenix.refine to generate the final model and the corresponding statistics to conclude the structure solution. The quality of the resulting model and especially ligand placement has to be assessed by the user and typically requires a resolution of 2 Å or better. This linear workflow allows a decision to be made between the 1various possible pathways of model generation which result from combinations of the available processing, phasing and model-building tools 

# Technical Implementation
This framework is built of multiple interfaces for each individual program in the crystallography process. Each interface is built of individual modules which are further comprised of sets of scripts and functions. The interfaces allow a set of i/p files and generates the output to the next interface in the pipeline.
 
